[Music]
Ramis Sethi welcome back to the show
thanks for having me dude I'm excited as
always what are some of the biggest lies
that society and parents tell us that
ends up keeping people broke and
breaking up relationships
we're told that investing has to be
complicated that you have to be some
genius looking at a screen with these
numbers like PE ratios of running
through it all day that's not true
we are told that
you have to buy a house because buying a
house is always the best financial
investment that's not always true
and we're told that
when it gets to a relationship oh
there's so many lies in a relationship
some of them are uh
he's a spender she's a saver
or I'm not the money person my partner
takes care of that and we accept that
and that leads to a lot of disasters in
relationships so the problem with money
is that we're told all these things and
because we don't really understand how
it works we just accept it it's like the
way I accept my car I don't know how it
works I just put the key in and turn it
on that's all I need to know but money
isn't like a car it cuts across
everything in our life that's why I
think it's so important that we
understand it so how do people begin to
figure out
how to think about investing how to get
out of what I think you call money
propaganda
and because as you well know because you
and I have been discussing this now for
years uh I've been going on my own
journey in fact because of you I'm now
going to stop saying that I'm terrible
at investing I'm getting way better I'll
be very honest good in large part
because of the show so I've got to sit
across from people like you a lot but
also putting into action and having now
enough time under my belt to see what
works what doesn't the emotional side of
it which right now seems to be the
biggest problem that people face is to
your point either they're buying into
propaganda or they're just the emotion
carries them away in the Euphoria or
they panic when Things fall so how do
people begin to tease that out and
really get their head right about money
and investing you know it's interesting
that by the time people turn 40 the
number one thing they're worried about
is money
and yet the vast majority of people have
never read a single book on Personal
Finance think about that they will
uh believe what any random person on
some crazy subreddit tells them and I
read all those subreddits not for stock
tips just for entertainment I go don't
do this they'll listen to podcasts which
can be better but you're not sure how to
tell if it's good or not they'll do
everything but read a good book on
Personal Finance now I'm not just
talking my book here because I have my
own book there's a lot of great books on
money so
if you want to become confident with
money you have to be competent that's
step one you have to be able to speak
the basic language of money and it's
actually not that complicated it's fun
you start to realize oh my gosh
compound interest works this way
so if I put a dollar in today it's worth
way more layer okay that's we all kind
of get that but when I show people a
calculator of you're 32 years old if you
put this much a month in this is how
much you'll have if you put that much
you'll have that much more it's super
counterintuitive I'll give you an
example
if you pay a financial advisor one
percent doesn't sound like a lot ah one
percent as long as I don't have to worry
about my money
over the course of your life that will
take 28 of your returns out of your
pocket and into your financial this is
why I don't like investing so that'll be
the next thing I have to get over so
don't get scared to admit that I'm
getting good at this okay I don't like
it wow because it is
the fact I know that that fact is true
but that is so counterintuitive my brain
cannot handle that one percent
compounding becomes 28 like it it
doesn't make sense it breaks my brain so
I accept it yeah but it's so
counterintuitive and I think that's why
a lot of people struggle with this the
good news is the punch line ends up
becoming really basic like just do it
slowly over time and we'll certainly get
to that but what I I want to help people
start thinking about money in a
different way yeah now the big
breakthrough for me
and this may be something that
frustrates a lot of people in terms of
the way that I interview and because
it's how I have to understand things so
I need to know what is money because if
I can build the logic up if from like
the most base layer then okay now that I
really understand the nature of money I
can predict things once I can predict
things then I can move intelligently
okay well that they're probably people
who are much better at the definitions
and history of money all right I don't
want to get into that too yeah what I
want to get to her is so if you laid out
the the lies that people get sucked into
yeah what are those core tenants that
for the person who doesn't want to do it
like I do it which is like understand
the most foundational thing and build
Brick by Brick over three years and okay
now I finally get where this goes yeah
what are just like yeah I don't want to
talk about it I want to read a book I
just want to do it yeah give me some
core simple sentence but why they work
so compounding is one problem yeah so
one percent seem small but when that
stuff compounds it's one times one yeah
times one time it just like you get that
result sorry it's not actually one time
one time whatever that number is times
itself yeah it keeps throwing itself
okay but here's another one
um in most parts of life if you spend
more time on it you get better results
cooking
to some extent Fitness uh certainly time
with your partner or your children
in money that is not true
when you see people tinkering around
with their portfolio and trading they
actually tend to have way worse returns
than somebody who puts it in a low-cost
Index Fund and doesn't check into it for
10 years there's a famous story it's not
clear if it's true or not about Fidelity
investors so Fidelity you know it's fine
firm whatever
there were people who had forgotten
about their money and they had died so
the money was just sitting in an account
just compounding growing the peop of
course these people were gone they were
dead so they didn't log into their
account and the money kept growing and
they compared the returns of those
dead investors from the average investor
the average investor gets only a
fraction of the returns that you and I
can get in an index fund and anybody
watching can get an index fund why
because the average investor is
undisciplined they are emotional they
log in they get scared they see the news
they sell they they call their friend
they hear about some land deal they do
all this crazy stuff and they lose their
returns so the counter-intuitive thing
with investing is the more time you
spend often you get worse results
so set it set it with the right plan and
then forget it
okay so I think we need to drill into
some of why that works so a debt
investor is investing in that scenario
I'm going to guess that they're in index
funds like you said yeah and what is an
index fund it's just a collection it's a
collection of stocks it is Diversified
usually there are index funds that are
just in health care or Tech but when I
talk about index funds I'm talking about
like S P 500 index funds it's well
Diversified and because it's a index
it's just matching the market that means
there's not somebody in some expensive
suit who's charging you one percent
it's just a computer your fees will be
something like point one percent which
is very inexpensive over your life and
just so that I understand how this works
so the S P 500 is the standards and poor
500. they're looking at stocks that meet
a certain requirement they have the
biggest market cap I don't know what
their actual requirement is but you're
at that point you're basically betting
on the American economy correct writ
large like as broad as you can manage it
and as a company falls off the S P 500 a
new company comes on so all of that the
managing just as like there is a
criteria if you meet the criteria you're
in the S P 500 if you don't meet the
criteria you're not and therefore I
assume as a company falls off you're
effectively then selling that and buying
the new one that comes in here's what
people are thinking as they hear this
they go well that sounds fine S P 500
but what if I have my own idea of what I
should invest in what if I want to pick
my own companies that's the first thing
again in normal life we want control
that's what we're taught in America we
want to take control Manifest Destiny
these are deep deeply embedded cultural
values
but when you apply those same values to
investing they can often be
counterproductive so people you're
really hedging they are
counterproductive in
99.9999999 yeah yeah of course you can
pick you can pick an amazing stock and
outperform the market you can but odds
of that consistently are virtually zero
correct and I want people to hear what
you just said because it is so
counterintuitive like if I go I'm going
to pick a restaurant I know what's a
good restaurant I'm not just going to
look at the reviews I know and I go odds
are pretty good I'll pick something that
I like with stocks you cannot predict it
over a long period of time so there are
people on my Twitter
they go Remy Index Fund is fine for like
people who don't know that much but I do
my research I do my research and I
invested heavily in Tech I go okay and
Tech has been booming for many years
but guess what happened
Tech came down hard and this is what
happens Industries go up and when
they're going up you know there'll be
companies like Facebook when it started
it was inconceivable that there would
ever be a day where Facebook wouldn't be
the biggest social network for us
that day has come right now it's hard
that for us to imagine that there's a
day where Amazon will not be the biggest
and most convenient company that day
will come as well history has shown that
and so what Savvy investors do is they
do not try to make individual bets in
their portfolio they just acknowledge
I have no idea I'm going to bet on an
index some are going to win some are
going to lose but over the course of
time we know that the index S P 500
tends to return about seven to eight
percent that's after inflation by the
way I'm saying that because these days
everybody wants to talk about inflation
that's like the I'm getting two
questions right now inflation and eye
bonds
I buy bonds I don't even know what that
is let me tell you
the fascinating thing is there's no real
reason that the average person should be
asking me about eye bonds it is it's
basically a a type of investment that
you can get like pretty high returns for
a bond and particularly in High Times of
inflation it's like it can be considered
to be a good investment here's why
people are asking because it's all over
the news
and I go why are you asking me this like
do you have a diversified portfolio
what's your asset allocation do you
understand how much guilt-free spending
you have those are big questions and I
bond is like me coming into this house
and saying Tom what finish did you use
on your doorknob like it's just so
esoteric it's it misses the point and so
this is why individual investors get
poor returns they are fickle whatever's
in the news they start chasing it and so
what Savvy investors do is they have a
plan
they understand the plan it's a simple
plan counter-intuitively simple and then
they don't deviate from it one of the
reasons that I think that I've achieved
what I've achieved is I don't trust
myself I don't trust my emotions I don't
trust my ability to read the future yeah
and so because of that I'm constantly
seeking disconfirming evidence here at
the company we have something that comes
from Ray dalio the largest hedge fund
manager in the world
and it's called principles the dot
collector and what it is I just had one
of my employees write me today and he
was he didn't want to he had critical
feedback for me and he didn't want to
put it in in the dot collector because
it's public and people can see it and I
was like no no please like I want people
to see because he was like I'm just
convinced that people are going to get
punished in some way for giving critical
feedback and I'm like they're not
because the reason that we structure it
this way the reason that I want you to
tell me what you think I'm doing wrong
is what if you're right and now if I can
get my ego out of the way I just got
more powerful so does it sting when you
realize you're doing something wrong
yeah I guess a little bit but I over
time have accumulated so many pieces of
information that I can then leverage to
tremendous success but it had to start
with me being very skeptical of myself
understanding how people trick
themselves into thinking they know
something and my big fear that over time
you're gonna hold me accountable to this
every time you see me that people's
thinking calcifies into Dogma yes and so
they think they've got it they think
they have everything figured out because
it's worked and so what I'm trying to do
is as I get older I know the tendency is
to go towards I'm like look look at what
I've achieved I know everything totally
and then you die
well it's a gift that you give all of us
me coming here and getting to go back
and forth with you and everybody
watching and listening to this because
what you do is hard it's hard to say I
don't trust myself and the more
successful you are like you are
easier it is to say no you know what I
actually do know that and so I don't
need to listen to anybody so I think
it's a real gift you're giving us and
it's interesting it's not hard for me it
is out of almost Panic really yes that
what what will happen that I will make
the wrong move I know how easy it is to
be wrong and how hard it is to be right
and how hard it is to be right
consistently yeah and on top of that
dude other people are smart and so not
everybody obviously there are morons and
so you really you really do have to get
good at filtering so in fact the guy
that gave me critical feedback today my
punchline was I think you're wrong but
I'm like this is a data point and so if
I keep getting this data point from a
bunch of people I'm going to start to
like maybe he wasn't wrong I call them
seagulls seagulls you know there's this
old story about Sailors and they would
look for Birds when they were sailing to
know that they were close to shore
that's a clue you're close to Shore and
so when I hear a seagull like somebody
telling like they used to tell me um I
used to uh hear that I was skinny like
and I heard it one time I was a really
skinny guy and I heard it two times I
heard three times and I was like oh I
must be really skinny I didn't realize
it until I heard these seagulls and I
started listening to him and I hear him
in business and I hear him with the
economy and in my relationship
and I don't always listen to him because
sometimes I'm just like whatever but
sometimes I'm like
whoa what's what's going on there I
gotta lean in and try to figure that out
so that's it's very interesting that we
both have that uh principle yeah I
wonder sometimes so looking at the way
that people invest they invest like life
has taught them that they're right all
the time and I'm like whoa has life just
taught you a different lesson like when
I look at investing I think oh cliches
become cliches for a reason people say
that you're not going to beat the market
Ray dalio is screaming from the rooftops
I have a hundred million dollars a year
spend in AI I'm trading in milliseconds
you're gonna try to go up against me and
1800 people in my company all like doing
things with AI in the fraction of a
second with gazillions of dollars what
on Earth makes you think you're going to
beat me how do people look at that fact
though and still do it they don't
remember when I told you they do they
lose money I know but listen remember
when I told you they haven't even read a
single book about money yes they haven't
read that they have heard Ray on some
podcasts for five seconds but they never
actually cracked his book
they don't even understand the basic
language of money is it arrogance though
like what makes because we'll get to
people that just bury their head in the
sand but what makes the person think
that they're going to beat the market
are they they're a gambler it's actually
the worst combination it's a little bit
of arrogance but it's ignorance as well
so ignorance and arrogance it's
basically like being a teenager you're
like God these teenagers are so dumb but
the they're not dumb we were not dumb
maybe we were at some points but it was
a combination of ignorance and arrogance
I have uh ridden in my car a thousand
times without the seat belt so why do I
need a seat belt nothing bad's happened
until it does
and when you don't have that experience
of being scorched in your portfolio it's
really easy to say oh my gosh it all
goes up and we should remember the
Dynamics of manias Okay I uh like in the
last few years
the market has gone up in a huge way
and if you notice the entrance of new
investors
they come and they people Wall Street
pejoratively calls them the dumb money
so most of the dumb money comes towards
the end of a Mania because
uh your taxi driver is talking about how
much money he made in crypto the news is
talking about how everybody's getting
rich and if there's one thing people in
America hate
it's your friend who's stupider than you
who got richer than you we just can't
accept it so we go you know what I'm
getting in I'm opening up a Robin Hood
account you should never open a
Robinhood account and they get in this
they don't understand what's going on
but all they know is the number goes up
so they start pushing some buttons they
take two thousand bucks or five thousand
bucks whatever they have and they go I'm
gonna be rich and if you were to stop
them right there you go hey I have a
question
are you trying to get rich quick
what do you think they would say no yeah
they would say no no no no I'm not
trying to get rich quick but everybody's
making money in crypto and like I did my
research I went on three different
subreddits and I put my money in here
and look and this is the craziest thing
of all it actually does go up for a
while so there is no disconfirming
evidence until the day their car runs
into a tree and they're not wearing a
seatbelt now most people actually do not
do this I don't want to scare people
away from investing investing is
actually not this roller coaster of
emotions you know what it is for me
it's like watching paint dry I spend one
hour per month on my money I don't it's
like asking me how do I feel about uh
the two two different pairs of underwear
I have one's black and one's great and I
don't care it's a commodity it's the
same thing to me that's investing
because once you really understand it
it is so simple it's counterintuitively
simple you almost feel like what's the
catch but just like in Fitness just like
in food just like in relationships it's
counterintuitively simple when you
really understand it with relationships
people want to feel heard they want to
feel appreciated they want time quality
time
do that you get the basics right and
that's why I always encourage the 85
solution with your money get 85 percent
of the way there
and then move on you do not have to be
perfect to be successful
all right so I want to go into the
detail of what people are combating in
their own minds and then what success
looks like for what you call a Savvy
investor but I think is
uh uh a wise investor maybe okay so uh
many people
think that they know better yeah many
people are prone to Mania everybody
thinks that Buy Low sell high will be
easy but the reason Buy Low so high has
become a thing is because the actual
preponderance of activity is reverse
they buy High panic and so low the
reason they buy high is the Euphoria I
re I had never paid attention to the
markets before until like 2020 through
2021 and I watched it felt awesome it
was so fun I had money for everywhere it
was just it was rad and everybody was
like yeah you can make money everybody
felt like a genius I've heard you say
that before
and so in the Euphoria you feel dumb if
you don't do something yes so now you've
both got the excitement and the fear of
the Dumber guy than me is making more
money than me and I'm an [__] for not
doing it like that I wouldn't actually
be able to look my wife in the eye or my
parents in the eye or my friends in the
eye or my kids in the eye that I didn't
take advantage of this moment I had my
money manager was like yeah Tom what are
you doing you're missing out on historic
gains
because I was so paranoid I was like
this can't go up forever so I was like
I'm going to be cautious of this moment
so to finish that thought
you're more likely to buy high and sell
low the reason that you buy high is the
Euphoria the reason that you sell low is
the panic when it starts to drop because
you're not realizing the way that you've
gotten wealthy the way that you advise
people to get wealthy which is really
about time yeah and so the reason that
you're not worried about volatility the
reason that you aren't panicking is one
you're investing at the index level so
you're betting on a huge group of things
that just meet some criteria S P 500
it meets our criteria and while there
will be short-term volatility short-term
meaning a year two years three years no
big deal
seven years 15 years 20 years
we're going to be winning
but most people can't do that
honestly everything you just said is a
true master class in investing I have to
say and I was here a year ago and we
were not having this level of discussion
it is really impressive it's amazing
what you just said
takes a lifetime to learn the truth is
hitting your career goals is not easy
you have to be willing to go the extra
mile to stand out and do hard things
better than anybody else but there are
10 steps I want to take you through that
will 100x your efficiency so you can
crush your goals and get back more time
into your day you'll not only get
control of your time you'll learn how to
use that momentum to take on your next
big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description all right my friend back to
today's episode
just to comment about
you're not concerned about volatility in
the short term because you have a
25-year Horizon that there are thousands
of books that have been written about
just that concept so for everybody
everything you just said is deep and
usually it will take people making their
own mistakes to come to the conclusion
you just said but it gets me excited to
hear that because if you're saying that
and everybody watching and listening is
hearing you and if they if they even
pick up on one thing they go you know
what
I don't want to buy High I want to avoid
manias or I'm going to check out this
Index Fund thing what is an index fund
that sounds pretty good
that is game changing it can change your
entire socioeconomic trajectory I talked
to these folks all the time they're
instagramming me they're sending me
emails and they go I was the first kid
in my family to go to college
um I use your material I landed a job I
started investing I do the 401K match
and I am now 31 and I have a hundred and
forty thousand dollars in my accounts
and I already know that I'm going to be
a millionaire by this month of this year
and I go this is amazing they have
changed the trajectory of their lives
and their families lives
it's amazing it's incredible
so now getting into the psychology of
why I think I'm going to make a
hypothesis you don't like Robin Hood
yeah they give you credit which
people need to be very thoughtful and if
the one piece of advice I would give
people is supposedly rich people know
how to use leverage and all that as a
rich person I'm just telling you right
now I don't [__] with leverage thank you
like that is terrifying that's how you
get yourself into trouble okay can we
just talk about this before the Robin
Hood slam
so people have a lot of misconceptions
about rich people it drives me insane so
when you get rich people to actually
share openly it is revelatory so I wrote
a PO a series of tweets about how
everybody thinks rich people have these
secret Investments that they're getting
like
10 times the returns of normal index
funds I go listen I'm rich
I have access to all this stuff
you right now yes I do have access to
more things than the average person like
private Equity some Venture Capital
certainly private Investments uh
companies
but guess what they usually do not
outperform an index fund and so can they
yes we both know investors I know you've
invested there's a lot of investors who
have picked a company it went Bonkers
and they're incredibly wealthy amazing
but that doesn't happen every day and
that's very unpredictable so this
enraged people it enraged them because
oddly enough we have a cultural belief
here that the rich get richer which is
true but primarily because of tax
reasons and therefore if ramit is
telling me that the rich don't actually
have access to these secret Investments
then the entire Paradigm for them falls
apart I can tell you
if you look at private Equity returns
like if you go first of all most people
don't even know what private Equity is
but let's just say you get access to a
PE fund
the way PE funds Market their returns
they're like we get like 22 irr but in a
tiny little asterisk on page 62 of the
prospectus they will say amount returned
to the investor is something like five
percent very often these super
sophisticated Investments once once you
factor in fees and taxes underperform a
simple Vanguard S P 500 Index Fund 80
plus percent of VC funds fail to beat
the market 80 percent of active
investors on Wall Street these are
highly paid investors fail to beat the
market
so what I'm saying is there's this big
myth that the rich have access to these
secret Investments now they do have
access to more Investments but that
doesn't mean they are better and I can
tell you as a someone who has access to
these I've basically decided I
prioritize simplicity I want to wake up
in the morning and not have a gajillion
things around me Simplicity and I know
from my goals a simple set of index
funds sure maybe a few different
individual Investments you know some
angel stuff maybe but like tiny you peel
off a certain percentage Yeah and I do
play with exactly just like going to the
casino you go okay I'm gonna do a
hundred bucks and that's it cool you
manage your risk the problem is like
when I talk to these crypto Bros
and they go Remy you're such an old guy
who wants seven percent returns that's
so boring I go oh okay so you're into
Bitcoin that's cool uh what percentage
of your portfolio is in Bitcoin they go
portfolio what's that that's the first
comment and then I I'll suggest to
people hey if you want to invest in
speculative assets okay but why don't we
limit it to maybe like two percent or
five percent and they just look at me
like Diversified portfolio why would I
diversify and they then they use words
that really sophisticated investors do
the only problem is they don't
understand them they go
concentration concentration is how you
make your money diversification is how
you preserve it I go do you know what
the [__] you are talking about you have
300 in your portfolio and you're talking
about concentration risk some people
cannot be helped
that's okay with me I do what I can but
the people who are watching and
improving
for them there are a lot of simple ways
that you can make a lot of money it just
takes time
here's where it gets tricky they're not
wrong
and I forget who said diversification Is
for Suckers it was somebody huge yeah
and they're right but only if you get it
right exactly odds of you getting it
right oh my God they're vanishingly Slim
So This is it's the same reason that
people chase money or fame there really
is utility to it so money is incredibly
powerful and it's why people can't stop
themselves from trying to get rich even
though I don't know how many people have
to tell you that if you're chasing money
you're going to end up emotionally
bankrupt it's just ruthless they don't
believe you though they don't until they
do it they have to do it themselves and
make the mistake but the reason that
that won't go away is because money
actually is powerful yeah the reason
that the idea of the crypto bro whether
it's crypto or anything else is that
when it hits for somebody it really hits
man and it is transformational and they
tell everybody about it and it's for
that person
it's probably real like and so everybody
chases that one it's like somebody
becoming a movie star you go I want that
if that if Tom Cruise sits here and says
well let me actually explain the
statistics of how many people were in my
class and how I'm the only one who
everyone's like whatever Tom I just I
want to be like you and so
it's okay if that's what you want to do
then God Bless but you need to
understand the game you are playing some
people go I am going to give my entire
life to try to be Tom Cruise
okay do you understand the trade-offs
and maybe it will work one in a million
one in ten million okay
but what if it doesn't work
so this is a common thing for
entrepreneurs as well
I have a lot of entrepreneur friends and
we talk about what are we doing with our
business and our money and you wouldn't
believe it but very few of them invest
in the market and I go what do you mean
you don't invest in the market you're
rich you have a lot of money let's put
it to work and they go dude they look at
me like dude
I can make way more putting it in my
business than putting it in the market
which may be true in the short term but
I go you're right you should probably
invest aggressively I mean your business
is great I have nothing to say about
your business but I also say how many
businesses do you know that were around
for 60 years
Sears even they went out like big
companies go out I say why take the risk
of going from here to here why not take
some of your cash flow
and diversify
it makes you sleep at night if something
catastrophic happens to you or your
business you and your family are taken
care of like why not and that that is a
productive conversation because I think
business owners they kind of get risk
they think about risk a little
differently
um honestly you know I don't want to
scare people with money where it gets
most exciting for me is people who go
okay I'm ready to invest I just don't
understand it those that is an amazing
conversation because in the course of
a couple of hours you can change the way
somebody thinks about money if they're
scared of money if they talk about it
with their partner with money and those
are the people that are ready to make a
change right so let's get into the
person that they decide okay cool I am
going to invest but what I think we're
up against because I think they're going
to be drawn to the robin hoods of the
world they're going to be drawn to Wall
Street bets yeah
my hypothesis is that there really is
something about gain mechanics gambling
that is so enticing and so fun and so
innate to The Human Condition yeah that
people cannot help themselves so as
let's use Robinhood as an example I
actually don't know them very well but I
know enough that I think I understand
why you don't like them but tell me
where I go yeah they have gamified
um gambling by doing what speculating
when you when you first of all where
where is it uh advertised where is it
talked about in the height of the crypto
boom it was talked about all over the
crypto rooms
you don't really want to be in those
rooms if you are a long-term investor
you do not want to be but okay that's
where their marketing was happening fine
when you sign up for an account and log
in they give you free money they go pick
pick something here's a free token
that is not how investing should be done
and do you have to pay that money back
is it a loan or is it no you can lose it
and it doesn't matter yeah I think it's
free
um
this is long-term investing it should be
it's not it should not be speculating
because individual investors should not
be speculated how do you speculate
because the part that scares me about
Robinhood isn't even that okay they're
encouraging you to pick your own stocks
and make you think you're fancy and
you're going to end up losing your money
it's that they get into puts calls
options where you have infinite downside
correct that's where people commit
suicide that's the one that freaks me
out yeah and and things like that have
happened it's um quite dangerous
that's a rarity you know um they do
offer it and in my opinion the
individual investor should not be doing
it I don't just to give you an example
why am I going to take so much risk to
make a little bit more money than I even
need why I'm making enough and I have a
long time Horizon I'm good
for the individual investor who's just
opening an account they've never
invested they come in it's like going
into a candy store except it's candy
laced with drugs
it's not the kind of thing I would never
put my family members on Robinhood
what's the drug in the scenario
uh just picking stocks well that is a
minor drug that's like
um what's worse than caffeine but it's
like a drug speed
cocaine I'm not the drug guy I don't
know I don't know anything about drugs I
was like doing spelling bees when I was
a kid not drugs uh better for you
um the risks are number one
you start thinking that investing is
picking individual
Investments that's individual stocks
that crypto should be your entire
portfolio this is a huge risk number two
all the advanced things that really sh
you should not be using as an individual
investor call options trading there's no
reason for it and worst of all once you
get into this world this Zeitgeist and
you're of course gonna search Robinhood
investing tips
you're now surround it's like you've
gone down the rabbit hole
and this is your world it's like you
took a wrong turn on the internet I have
a personal theory that people who signed
up for Robin Hood during the crypto boom
will have lower lifetime returns than
the average Vanguard investor why
because if you get used to
300 or even 3 000 returns for two or
three or four years
how are you ever going to be satisfied
with a seven percent annualized return
it's impossible
and so this is important it's like
making a decision in your adolescence
that can affect the rest of your life
and I know you said that you believe a
lot of people are subject to
um manipulation or being gamified and
things like that I agree that is very
true and it's exploitative
my my view is there are also a lot of
people who want simple investing
they're willing to put in the time
they don't want uh whiz-bang fancy stuff
they just want to know how basic
investing really works they want to
understand their money psychology they
want to feel good about money those are
the people I talk to
okay so tell me a little bit more about
leverage so that's the part about Robin
Hood that scares me is that people can
get themselves in a situation so I
certainly understand your what you're
telling people to do invest in an index
fund put it in and wait a long time just
dollar cost averaging keep adding money
and don't touch it yeah
we know though that people get excited
they like the gambling mechanics so what
are the things that they should be on
alert for how how does leverage enter it
what is leverage how do people get
themselves in trouble would you ever use
leverage with the S P 500 no way
okay Leverage is basically
um
it's it's putting a turbo charger on
your Investments now if it sounds
awesome it sounds really good however
however
people forget that leverage works on the
way up but it also works on the way down
so when things are good and you use
leverage they can be really good you're
borrowing money you're up applying that
towards your Investments and it's like
oh my gosh it's appreciating fantastic
of course you need to manage your
Leverage
uh you need to sell you need to do all
these very complicated things that the
average person on the street has no idea
about
where it goes really bad is when things
start to turn
there's all these famous stories about
people who had tons of money and then
one day they are wiped out
those stories terrify me and they also
confuse me because
if you have a million dollars or 10
million dollars or however much is a lot
you have to play a different game
you have to decide
what what is risk to me like when I was
22 and I was not making that much money
and I was starting my first company
I was like I'll work really hard my risk
my downside is low because I live in a
house where my rent is 800 bucks a month
and like I'll go with my friends at
Google and eat lunch there and take my
backpack and stuff it with food to take
home like great
my risk is much higher now if I lost it
you know I got used to these sweaters
man what am I going to go back to
wearing the old sweaters I used to no I
have a family uh I have a lifestyle that
I like and I have Investments and plans
for how I use my money I have a team I
have employees
so my risk tolerance changes okay
when you're using leverage if you are
really really really Savvy and I mean
um probably savvier than 99.5 percent of
investors
leverage can make sense
many more money to buy some yeah some
type of security it could be a house
even you know people use leverage for
their house and that's great a lot of
people point to that as a great reason
for Real Estate outperforming
true
on the other hand when prices go down as
they are now leverage can be your enemy
so if you put a little bit of money down
and the price of the house goes down
just by this you can be wiped out why
how how does that happen I have to show
you the math I don't have it handy but
imagine what is the metaphor here that I
can share with you
it's like putting on
um a heavy weight vest and and I get
launched into the sky I'm gonna go
faster because I have this weight vest
it's just like forcing me up there
any physicist watching this please don't
write me about how I don't understand
gravity you're right
but when you turn and come down that
weight vest is going to make you come
down
way faster than you ordinarily would
have
um that's the best example I can give
all right let's step out of analogy and
go into just the reality because in in
the housing market I think the only way
the Leverage is going to bite you in the
ass is the following so Leverage is
literally just borrowing money so you
have the leverage of somebody else's
money so they give you money let's say
you put 10 down but you buy the whole
house if the house costs a hundred
thousand dollars you put ten thousand
dollars down you now owe ninety thousand
dollars when the house is worth more
than the amount that you
oh all is well because you could sell
the house and get that money and you can
pay the bank where you get into trouble
is if
your house is worth less than you owe on
it yes and your payment goes up let's
say because interest rates change you
had an arm an adjustable rate mortgage
and so now you can no longer make your
payments you can't make your payments
now the bank is sweating you saying hey
you better give us our money back you
can't sell the house at least not for
what you owe and so boom you end up
losing your house yeah that's basically
it although the interest rate doesn't
necessarily need to reset there are a
lot of reasons why you can be in a bad
position but you can't make your payment
is that yeah because if you can make
your payment it doesn't matter the price
of your house or the value of your house
could go down down down down down and it
wouldn't matter technically yes uh there
is some psychological wrinkles people
hate to keep making payments on
something when they know it's worth less
than they paid that is a minor
psychological difference but nothing is
forcing correct nothing is forcing but
now I want to talk about using leverage
to invest in crypto or the stock market
because here's where people get
absolutely obliterated okay so you're
using the value let's just use Bitcoin
you're using the value of Bitcoin as The
Leverage to get the loan so hey you have
Bitcoin that's worth a hundred thousand
dollars we're gonna give you fifty
thousand dollar loan using the uh
Bitcoin as the collateral so you then
use that to buy more Bitcoin the problem
is if the value of the Bitcoin drops
enough the second that value equals how
much you owe them they force liquidate
you to make sure that they don't lose
any money yeah so they're like word
thank you they sell they get all of it
you go from having something to having
nothing in an instant known as a force
liquidation yeah wait has this happened
to you no but I couldn't understand how
people were getting in trouble I was
like what do you mean a liquidation so
because I was used to thinking like a
house yeah and I'm like as long as you
can make a payment what's the problem
but they're not making a payment it's
just the collateralization so the second
that it drops to matching then they're
like we can't afford this dropping
anymore we have to sell to get our USD
back so they force you to sell I didn't
know that was a thing yeah so thankfully
because here's my thing dude going back
to the first thing I said I do not trust
myself I'm going to be very trepidatious
so even now with as much money as I have
dude a I don't have leverage on anything
but the only time I would ever even
consider doing something on Leverage is
if I understood that thing and had
proven to myself that I had performance
over long periods of time completely
I love that you say that we have a
similar philosophy you know there's a
spectrum of how risk seeking you are
with money and you know people follow
these somewhat predictable
moves on the Spectrum when you're young
you'll take all the risk in the world
when you have a little Capital you maybe
get a little bit less risky
um that's normal
but I remember a mentor of mine many
years ago
uh he was he was a pretty successful
Silicon Valley investor so we were out
for lunch and he was talking about we're
talking about money and he said ramit I
have a no debt policy in my family
and I thought to myself I was young I
thought to myself wow must be nice not
have to take any loans buy a car cash I
wasn't even thinking about a house but
he has a no debt policy
now that I've gotten older I've grown my
own business and personal wealth
I actually admire him even more because
as someone who has a lot of money he
could easily leverage himself
to buy a house buy a car all kinds of
stuff but he doesn't he knows what
enough is
so out of all my friends well let me ask
you do you have enough
no okay
we can get into why I want to know why
so I've actually heard you say and
people say this all the time you want to
talk about a money lie that drives me
crazy
uh you've got hundreds of millions of
dollars you could never spend it what
dude I could drop easily half a billion
dollars just making one film and
marketing it so to me it's like bro I
need so much money to do what I'm trying
to do yeah so even though
in the average world I'm freakishly
wealthy with what I'm trying to build I
feel hamstrung by money all the time wow
so all I think about is how do we
generate more Revenue so that we can
keep investing in the business
so but I don't fall prey to that I don't
actually have enough you know what I
mean like for what I'm trying to build I
don't have enough but if I stop having
fun then I just stop and go be rich okay
so I'm not I don't trap myself in in uh
foolish beliefs
we could really derail into frame of
reference right now which I actually
think is the ultimate thing that you
point out for people yeah but to get
into frame references maybe later but
first of all just say I like your answer
a lot
um I only know one other person besides
me who says he has enough he's a friend
of mine he also studied all my money
stuff years ago and he's done very well
and I asked him recently do you have
enough yes didn't miss a beat I was
stunned I was like meeting a unicorn I
said what you have you're the only
person I've ever heard say that besides
me and we talked about it
he understands money he understands
compounding he knows how much he has
today and he knows if he does nothing
else he just leaves that turkey in the
oven and just lets it sit it's going to
turn into a huge amount of money he
knows how to spend it how to leverage it
leverage meaning not use leverage but
how to
um make you make use of it yeah
so
I don't mind if most people would not
answer yes to that question I don't mind
it your answer is great it's on a far
end of the spectrum but I do want people
to know
what is enough
and if I asked somebody what is it I
asked them this all the time in my
podcast and their answer is uh a million
bucks
or three million bucks I go okay
how'd you come up with that and they go
well you know I just
I feel like that's like a good amount
like I'll feel safe when I have that
and I go can I tell you something I go
yeah I go
you genuinely believe that when you have
2.5 million dollars in the bank you're
going to feel safe it's never going to
happen
the way you feel about money is highly
uncorrelated with how much you've got in
the bank and I I've talked to people on
the podcast who have 100 they believe
they need a hundred thousand dollars
to feel safe a million 10 million 15
million
and without fail when they get there
they're still worried they're still
worried because the two are independent
so we have to understand first of all
what does a million dollars mean how
much can you generate from that how if
you do nothing and you want to keep that
money safe how much can you turn that
into in terms of cash flow that's just
basic understanding things like the four
percent rule but then we need to
understand the emotional psychological
part of money that's super neglected
especially among techy guys you know
they're over here on making their
spreadsheets in their fire Community
they go oh I need my Trinity rule I need
to do my spreadsheets I go man you're
gonna go the rest of your life
optimizing your spreadsheet and you're
never going to actually feel good about
money and that has been the focus of my
work for the last few years
it's very interesting I always find
myself drawn to what's the psychology of
that person
because the fire person they're not
focused on the same thing that you are
correct but they're getting off on like
really scrimping and scraping and like
it that has become the game for them and
I remember when I was really broke and I
wanted to spend money and I didn't have
money to spend and I'm not sure what
gave me the the idea but this ended up
working amazingly what if I gamified
saving what if I put all of my dopamine
in that basket so that as I watch my
bank balance go up even though it was
going up from like 115 to 127
could I get a dopamine spike out of that
and become obsessive about saving and it
worked it was awesome you still do that
no not at all how did you turn it off I
got really rich
so I mean this is like and okay so there
there are things about my brain that I
am really grateful for and there's
things about my brain that really piss
me off but I am hyper malleable and I
know how to change myself so when I
needed to save yeah I was like
intuitively understood I need to make
this a game because then I'll be
attracted to that I didn't I wouldn't
have said oh this is about dopamine but
I knew it'll be fun that was the only
way I could explain it I'll make this
fun
so I knew how to make that fun but the
whole point of me getting into business
and doing all this was so that I could
build the studio so I once I got there
then it just became a question of
what do I want to use the money for
which I know is a big thing that you
talk about but I want to talk about
safety for a second because as you were
saying that I realized I will never
having money in the bank will never make
me feel safe the oh there's literally no
amount of money because I know how easy
it is to spend on something big or take
a big risk and it's all gone the thing
that makes me feel safe is that I know
how to make money and so my skill set
makes me feel impervious so I don't the
only fear I actually do have one fear
around losing my money and that's it
will it will really not make me look
cool to my wife if you lose money if I
lost money yeah so that would I would
not feel studly
in front of my wife and so that makes me
really bummed out the thought of that
happening but because I know I can
rebuild yeah dude honestly like I
sometimes fantasize
about
starting it all over but like not I
can't even start my own company I have
to go in somebody else's company do you
know how fast I would get promoted
through that [__] company you want to
come work for me the mill yeah come on
that'd be amazing yes if should it all
go away give me a call but yeah uh okay
so that's amazing the fact that
when I talk to you it's so interesting I
hear similar things that I hear from
other people but your reasoning and your
level of reasoning is just completely
different from others it makes perfect
sense you know you are as successful as
you are and you think about this stuff
every single day it's like a joy to talk
to you most people
are scared of not having enough most
people worry about money they believe
that a certain number will make them
feel safe in your case you worry about
money a little bit you don't feel safe
with money those two things are the same
but you're you're impervious to uh that
type of risk because you know how to
make money and you acknowledge it might
be embarrassing you know for you and
your wife definitely be embarrassing
what I want people to do
is to go deeper than just saying
um I don't feel safe with money I want
people to go deeper than saying I worry
about money I and this is what I do I
ask them what words are you
what worries you and they'll say well I
I don't know if I have enough I'll say
do you want to find out right now let's
just do the math
they've worried about money for 25 years
and they've never pulled out a
calculator which you can find on Google
in two seconds and typed in four numbers
that really tells you that it is deeply
psychological and emotional
um they worry that because they don't
have Clarity on what they want and so
enough is inherently related to what you
want to do with it
the word enough is just this repository
of worries
and if I say what is enough they'll just
make up a number and I say okay 2
million cool where'd you get that from
again they just pulled it out because it
feels right it's kind of like when I ask
people how much do you spend on a
vacation how do you decide how much to
spend on a vacation it's a very
interesting question it reveals a lot
for everybody watching you know how do
you decide how much you spend on a
vacation
and what people often do is
they will say ah you know I figure like
it should probably be around like 5 000
bucks for this type of trip that I'm
trying to take I said cool how did you
come up with that number
and we probe and probe and it turns out
in their early 20s when they first
started having some money they went on
vacation and they have basically
imprinted that number
now now imagine I'm talking to a 40 year
old
45 year old
she and her husband have been very
successful
they have 10 million dollars this is a
podcast episode that I had
and they're still saying their vacation
should be five thousand dollars
and they really value their vacation
they love it but when they go on it
they're always worried about money I
said something's wrong here and the
answer is you haven't turned the page on
your finances in that season of life
like when you were gamifying finances
that was fun that was that season of
life for you at a certain point your
season changes you got to turn the page
and embrace the season that you are in
and that's really hard for people to do
how much do you think of this is tied to
we don't know when we're gonna die
because if I knew I was going to die
when I'm 85 then I just run the math
I've got this much it'll run out no
you're a freak Nobody Does it like that
it's more about wouldn't they though if
they knew when they were gonna okay you
think they would here's the scenario
yeah you have received a terminal
illness notice you know that you have
five to ten years to live you know it
can we make it specific I know I have
seven years seven years to live cool so
now it's very specific this is a real
scenario okay you have seven years to
live
um you
have two daughters they're like nine and
ten years old you want to create
memories with them
but you're wondering if you should quit
your job
and spend time with them
what's the one bit of information you
need to know
how much money I have in savings and how
long it's going to last okay very good
your the amount of money you have is
about eight million dollars okay
well seven years to live quit for sure
okay well I wouldn't because I love what
I do but I would certainly split time or
something so that I would have a
preponderance of time to spend with the
kids this is a real woman
who came to me on my podcast and her
question was should I quit my job wow
she had a double lung transplant
she has five to ten years left to live
she wants to create memories with her
daughters and
I'm listening to this and I go
what's keeping you at your job
and she said I like the steady income
that's the beginning of the conversation
now I can't just get in there and be
like look at this look at the math
here's the calculation this is
psychological we we go back to our
childhood and this is where most people
are more motivated they don't look
forward with their money I want them to
get there but first we need to look back
her mom
taught her certain lessons about money
caused her to worry about money she's
continued to worry about it and at a
certain point like you said those
grooves become really deep they become a
habit so when I ask people like what do
you get out of this they're worried like
what do you get out of this they go
nothing I go no no you get something
otherwise you wouldn't do it
often it gives them a sense of control a
sense of purpose so we're talking about
this and to me the most interesting part
of the conversation was she's
immunocompromised so she really has to
take care of her health when she travels
she doesn't want to go into restaurants
and things like that I said no problem
with that much money
you can hire a doctor to come with you
you can have an assistant clear the area
there's so many things you could do so
in this part of the conversation I asked
him what do you want to accomplish what
do you want to do with your family what
what messages do you want to share with
them in your time here
and they discussed uh taking a trip to
somewhere like Texas or Arizona or
something like that that sounds great
how would you do it and we had this
15-minute back and forth about what they
drive would they fly well their immuno
she's immunocompromised and her husband
piped up and said what if we Charter a
plane
remember she's got a few years left to
live time is of the essence that they
have plenty of money
and they talked about it and they talked
about it and in the end she goes well
that sounds really cool but of course
we're not going to do that
I was like wait what you have this
chance to go on a trip and she said well
you know we're just not the kind of
people who would Charter a plane
and so I share this because so many of
us think that if I just had enough money
and if I knew how much time I had left
then of course I would change my life
and my response to that is
um saving money is really important but
spending money is also important and
it's like a muscle and if you don't
exercise it and if you don't learn how
to spend on things that are meaningful
to you then you can accumulate a lot of
money over time but you won't actually
know how to use it
it's really interesting this is frame of
reference I'm the type of person that
right we're not the kind of people that
would Charter a plane
uh okay so I find that
very in line with what I know to be true
about humans
which brings me to
how money tears apart relationships
so one of the cool things about your
podcast is that you get people to come
on and talk about like the real stuff
that they argue about what are the
biggest Collision points for people in
relationships over money
it always starts with a very specific
incident I remember one where
she went to Target
and she came home and his first question
was how much did it cost
and it just blew up into this fight
Target is a real flash point for people
it's like a there's a Target that's what
I said I've been to Target I grew up in
Suburbia you know there's all these
memes online about I went to Target to
spend 20 bucks and I walked out with 300
hahaha I actually don't find it that
funny
because as I talked to her because
there's no discipline no not not not for
that reason
because
your rich life cannot be going to a
random store to buy random commodities
and then declare that this is all I want
in life
there's got to be more to a rich life
than buying formula 409
because it needs to be intentional it
needs to be meaningful so with this with
this young woman I asked her
like what do you what do you buy at
Target and her first answer was I buy I
buy clothes for my kids that's code for
I'm a good mom I said okay what else uh
you know things for supplies
okay fine
but she spent so much time talking about
Target
and I said tell me about you what is
your rich life and she was blocked it's
been so long since she thought about
herself that she didn't know what to do
and so we probed and I have a whole
process and she finally said you know
what I'd love to do I said tell me she
said I would love to get a massage once
a month just time alone
I said could you do it she's like oh no
no I can't do that I have kids
um you know I need to spend time Etc
I said what kind of message do you think
that you send your kids
now when you don't
prioritize yourself as well and she
started tearing up
and I asked her why Target why do you go
there and when she was a kid her mom
used to take her there so this is often
rooted in childhood her mom would take
her there her mom would say what would
you like to buy she would get a treat
and so now she does the same thing with
her daughters the problem is she has
shrunk her rich life to a commodity
store now if she had told me like I love
camping so we go to REI and we go we get
camping stuff and we spend time great I
have nothing against big box stores
but it's this idea that she's just
buying random things which she herself
admits she doesn't remember later and
she shrunk her rich life to something
where she can't even give herself a
massage give order a massage I said what
if you were to go and once a month you
were to get a massage you were to spend
money on unapologetically and you were
to tell your daughters Mommy's going
to take care of herself she'll be back
in two hours what kind of message would
you send your daughters then and she
tears up again
money allows us to express our values on
a very tactical basis
if you believe you're generous show me
how much you tipped the last time you
went out to coffee if you believe you're
adventurous show me how much you spent
on an adventure in the last 60 days
so there are these phrase we use
generous adventurous spontaneous I like
to travel I love them you choose your
rich life
but our money and time is what can
actually reflect what our values are
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right I've just released a class from
Impact Theory university called how to
build Ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
okay so how does that end up like I want
to know where where the moments are of a
collision so people don't have Clarity
they haven't thought about their
richness okay is it when the rich life
is different for both of them yeah so
the biggest the biggest mistake that I
find with couples and it it's common
among many of them is they have no Rich
Life vision so they will come arguing
about you know I can't believe that he
spent 500 to do this car repair we
should have waited or I can't believe
she went to Target
and I'll ask him what is your rich life
and they're just like I don't know I you
know we want to take care of our kids
and we want to retire I go your kids are
two years old you went from two years
old to retirement what happens in
between so there's no shared Rich Life
vision and if you don't have a vision
it's easy to get lumped into the weeds
it's like you you had this vision of
this studio
if you didn't have this Vision it's just
like I want to make money make money am
I paying too much for this what about
that but if you have a vision it all
kind of crystallizes into everything I'm
doing is to make this couples don't have
that they rarely sit down and talk about
money another Collision point is when
they do talk about money it's almost
always reactive it's a fight
so
98 of couples do not proactively talk
about money in my experience
it will be why'd you spend that or how
are we going to afford this
or some type of reaction but it's almost
never hey it's our monthly Rich Life
review let me compliment you on
something you compliment me let's take a
quick look at the numbers and let's talk
about what comments because uh when it
comes to money
it's almost always a fight it's almost
always negative so in I in a monthly
Rich Life review I always started off by
saying something nice about the Partner
money related or just anything should be
money related so it would be something
like um you know babe I really
appreciate how whenever we travel
somewhere you always
book The Right seats and you make sure
that we have great flights and I
appreciate that about you
something that connects what they do
with money
and it's such a different way to talk
about money instead of why'd you spend
that much I can't believe you did that
there's a um a therapist researcher I
forget his name but he has this idea of
the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse and
he said you know I've been doing this
for a very long time and I've noticed
that there are four traits that if a
couple shows that odds are that they're
gonna end up getting divorced and the
one Horseman that is most predictive is
contempt contempt so if people roll
their eyes if they're you know huffing
and puffing about their spouse he's like
yeah the and this isn't him just
ballparking it was like 98 predictive of
divorce within the next
six to 12 months I mean it was crazy the
gottman uh gottman yeah gottman's
they're awesome nice my wife and I took
a gottman seminar really yeah we loved
it it was
uh virtual and during covid and it was
an entire weekend it was like eight
hours a day and it was physically
difficult because it's pretty emotional
and you're talking and you're going
through some difficult conversations how
are you doing that virtually he's like
okay and now take five minutes to answer
these questions yeah yeah they give you
exercises and there are therapists
around in case you need
a specific help it was outstanding
and in looking back you know at the end
of the weekend we were exhausted
emotionally physically
but we reflected on it and we said like
what did we like would we do it again
and
um the most valuable thing we did was
simply putting time aside for our
relationship and then
we also decided we want to do it once a
year so we put money aside in a sub
savings account for self-development and
we use it for a conference a seminar
whatever it may be for us for our
relationship it's separate from
vacations but that's just an example of
when if couples had a joint set of goals
and they actually put money towards it
that is really meaningful so this this
couple I just spoke to recently
um the guy was not interested in money
he was the primary earner but he just
didn't care he's like I give it to my
wife she handles it big mistake classic
mistake is to have one person be the
money person and the other person is
just like oh yeah you do that that's
your thing that's a huge mistake
so he was pretty disengaged
and finally you know I was talking to
him what's your rich life he didn't have
much finally I mentioned a child free
trip the guy's face lights up I was like
all right this guy wants to get away
from his kids I get it he wants to have
time with his partner to connect
so suddenly we start building that in to
their rich life we put some money aside
every single month he knows that once a
quarter they're going to go on a child
free trip
now these little skirmishes In The Weeds
about why'd you spend that or I can't
believe that you didn't do this those
are out of the picture because they're
focusing on something that they both
want that's the way that I want couples
to use money okay so I brought up
contempt because I want to know is there
a thing like that in money where if I
see this I know that I have a problem or
is it something else yeah if they're if
one partner is completely checked out
that's a huge huge huge rate why do
people normally check out
um it they just don't believe that
change can happen and you know it's
either in a bad situation they don't
even want to look at it yeah they're
just I'm out no they just go what's the
point and there have been a few couples
I've talked to
interestingly most of the couples who
are really checked out won't even come
on they'll even tell me on email I'll be
like hey I'd love to talk to you I think
I can help and they go I spoke to my
husband It's usually the husbands on
email
and he doesn't want to do it and then
sometimes like six months later they'll
write me like that relationship did not
work out boyfriend husband whatever but
there have been a couple where they came
on
and we're talking about it and we're
really trying to make some progress and
one partner is just like this just
checked out like whatever rolling eyes
um you can hear the flat affect in their
voice there's no engagement
and
everyone can imagine what it's like to
be in a relationship for years where
nothing has changed and you just lose
hope it's really heartbreaking I try to
get them engaged and sometimes it works
like I can remember a couple of times
where the partner gets engaged and
there's a way to bring them but it is
really the responsibility of the other
partner so how do you get people to
re-engage if one person because I've
obviously heard a bunch of your episodes
if one person is like nah you know I I
don't get involved that's her let her
deal with it or let him deal with it the
key is to raise the stakes
so most people don't believe that the
stakes are real so what I mean by that
is
um they're in a relationship in in this
case for 21 years they were married and
he's cheap really cheap this is the
episode with Charles and his wife and
he's made millions of dollars he has a
net worth of 13 million dollars he wrote
me saying help all caps my wife of 21
years is going to divorce me because she
says I'm too cheap so I get on the call
and I'm talking
and when I ask him like how bad is it
people do this thing where they minimize
how bad it is and I go so you know
what's it what's it like he goes well
it's not that I'm cheap
I'm selective and I go oh okay so I do
okay what other words do you use to
describe yourself that are not actually
what you are and what I do is I raise
the stakes because I need them to
understand what is going to happen I go
what happens if this goes on for another
month he goes basically nothing it'll be
fine I go five years he goes my wife's
gonna be pretty sick meanwhile's wife is
over there checked out
because she's given up she's given up
and you can hear it in her voice it's
really really sad but I knew that if the
two of them were really committed to it
that I could help them and that they
could do it I said what happens in 10
years their kids will be out of the
house Etc and he goes he starts to
realize it like he really starts to
process what the future is like if he
makes no changes he will have 26 million
plus dollars
and he'll be divorced and all this work
that he put into making money and
building a successful family will have
been destroyed why the need to save 200
on a mattress purchase
and he's smart he he even says I'm
getting it intellectually but I can't
bring myself to do it here so that's I
take that I say great okay you get it
intellectually I'll work with that I get
his wife on board she's checked out but
I say talk to me what would it look like
and I do a little work where I um I
basically say what if he said something
like this and I say it in my own words
sometimes couples just haven't modeled
it ever they don't know how to actually
say it in the way that would connect
with their partner so I do it for him
and then I say now you try it
in the end
his wife wanted landscaping for their
front yard she said we have the worst
Landscaping on the whole block and the
Landscaping was like modest for their
income she wanted a Peloton and I think
uh when they travel she did not want to
only sit in economy which I loved she
was like we don't have to sit there
anymore we worked really hard we get to
sit in the front of the plane I was like
good for you
he sent me a picture of their Peloton
and he said I bought it and it actually
feels good my wife is happy and more
importantly they were talking about
money together not about how to spend
less but about how to create their rich
life together
interesting I do wonder how much of that
is about control as well like if you
feel like
because this person is constantly
complaining paranoid whatever they just
refuse to you know get on board
we have this money but I can't do what
we think we should be doing with it like
for instance if you have two cheat
people is there a problem
there's a problem if they come to me
because I'll be coming to you because
they have a problem yeah they realize
there's something
um deep down so it with cheat people
they'll say little Clues like they'll go
the God I'm not cheap I'm just Frugal
okay you're you're cheap but okay I go
how do you know or what what seagulls
what Clues do you have that you're cheap
to go well our friends don't invite us
out anymore
nobody comes over to our house I go why
we don't have a table whoa this is
classic classic this happens we don't
have a table is classic yeah cheap
they're really cheap I'm not getting
somebody on the podcast who's like oh I
really prefer you know generic Saran
Wrap no these are they have money and
they have not bought Furniture in five
or seven years like there's something
going on here
and remember this isn't just rich people
with their rich people problems there's
also couples who have like 825 000 of
student loans oh my God so they come to
me they go I don't think we can afford
to have children but that's a whole
nother conversation and so
um with cheap people if two people are
cheap
it becomes a self-reinforcing thing
um but if they don't think they have a
problem then I'll never talk to them
because only people who believe they
have a problem and want help will come
on a podcast where they have to Spill
the Beans about all their numbers it's
interesting to me as you were telling
that story I was like okay the the way
that Lisa and I solved that problem
early in our marriage when we didn't
have a lot of money was all right you
have your spending money I have my
spending money now that doesn't help
with things like the lawn which is a
shared expense which is what got me
thinking maybe this is a control thing
like if you both have this amount of
money but one of you becomes a roadblock
I can see how that would be really
frustrating uh you get a collision of
values where she's embarrassed by the
lawn she's embarrassed that or not maybe
embarrassed but
irritated that other people get to sit
in first class and she has to go to the
back of the plane so I can see that sort
of resentment building up and when you
have a collision of values the other
person seems legitimately crazy to you
it's like why like what are we doing
here this doesn't make any sense let me
give you an example let's say that
um we have a couple
and they're married for five years and
they have kids and they're talking about
their kids you know a newborn and one of
them goes well we should probably start
putting some money aside for him to go
to school college one day and the other
one says why would we do that he could
just go to the military
now that's a collision yeah yeah so that
is a collision of financial values class
what class something we don't talk about
in America a lot what class were you
raised in what culture were you raised
in and how do you have that conversation
how do you have that conversation
so they come on and they're just like
bewildered why one of them's like of
course our kids going to go to college
of course we're going to save because
that's what my parents did for me and
the other one goes well I don't I don't
need that and do you think one of them's
right
sometimes I I have strong beliefs when
couples come on
sometimes I tell them Point Blank that
one in particular yeah what do you think
the play is
the the play with them is to spend the
bulk of the time understand letting them
talk out loud about how they were raised
and why they believe for example the guy
who wanted them to go to the military
he had actually gone to art school and
he thought it was a total waste of money
total scam
but he got a good job and he was doing
quite well he was the primary earner
she had been raised in a family where
they Super Value education
she was her college was paid for it in
the cultural milieu that she grew up in
it was everybody's parents take care and
she wanted to do the same thing for her
kids
um
personally I think that if you have a
lot of money
it probably makes sense for you to at
least partially if not fully fund your
children's education for a couple of
reasons I'll say this because my
education was not funded by my parents
they were middle class they told me
Point Blank you need to apply for
scholarships right and so I did and
those scholarships paid my way for
undergrad and grad school at Stanford
entirely
so I went into college thinking like oh
yeah like I paid my weight dude it's so
cool and I also had this belief that if
parents pay for their kids their kids
are going to be spoiled
and within the first two weeks I
realized I was totally wrong
the first two weeks of what college
because
at a school like Stanford a lot of kids
have their parents paying not all
there's a lot of financial aid as well
but there's a lot of kids who have their
parents paying for it
it is
indistinguishable
there are kids who went to private
school and then went to a school like
Stanford they're not spoiled some of
them are they're kids who had their
parents paying some did not you can't
tell one way or another and so what I
realized was for example for my future
kids
will I will we pay for their education
yeah yeah especially Indians we pay it's
a cultural thing you help your kids in
any educational related thing so now
we're seeing education but financially
speaking what if my kids had to make a
trade-off with what school they go to
and then they find out at age 25 how
much money we have
oh I couldn't go to this study abroad
program because my mom and dad didn't
give me five thousand dollars which is
like a rounding error
not exactly what I want to communicate
to my kids now do I want to teach them
the right values and hard work of course
but I do think that you know again
sometimes sometimes on the podcast it's
just point blank clear someone is saying
something that's just not fair and I'll
say it but sometimes it's not my job
it's my job to let them come to their
own conclusion I get that for sure out
of curiosity if everybody had to follow
your advice around college debt
specifically yeah what would your advice
be because 825 000 I'll just tell you
right now that was a mistake uh that
that was a mistake and they admitted it
do you know the two I didn't even rack
that much up what are you doing a good
question what do you think the two
occupations that are in the most debt
are
I would have thought doctor
and lawyer architect something like that
actually those are good guesses uh
lawyer is a good one because law school
is super expensive and not all lawyers
make a lot of money but no number one
veterinarian
writer heard you say it on this what the
[__] because they take out Medical
School level debt but they don't make
that much money in that's number one and
number two which is what this couple was
physical therapists so it's crazy they
they look they said like on the last day
they basically got an envelope that said
here's how much you owe and they were
honest too they acknowledged that they
had personal responsibility they had not
done their due diligence they basically
just walked in and and didn't care about
debt as so many students do so you know
we spent a lot of time talking about the
difference between personal
responsibility and systemic and
sometimes predatory things that colleges
do regardless of all that
they're like we can't afford to have
kids we're going to be in this debt
forever
um should they have gone into that much
debt for that job
no what's your advice to them how the
hell do they get out of that kind of
debt so
when they walked in it was hopeless and
they were just like we don't know what
to do and they love their job but like
it's not working out
meaning that they're just not making
enough to make the interest payments and
so the amount that they was growing it's
just growing and
they just they're not
um yeah they're not happy with where
they are but they feel trapped okay
so we talked about it a lot and
two things happen first
on a personal level
I felt that everything was just a little
too hard
so they had gone to college their
responsibility they signed the papers
they admitted it and they took
responsibility I appreciate that
um but nobody had educated these 17 or
18 year olds about what interest means
nobody tells these kids that so that's
number one it was a little hard number
two when they got their jobs they were
not you know informed about certain
things then they had I think one
daughter kovid hit they lost their child
care
I thought you're gonna say they lost
their child I'm sorry no no they they
lost their child care so now she was
staying home which cuts into their
earnings which makes it harder to pay
off the debt the interest was growing
why is it growing on a student loan
isn't there something we can do for the
students in America that have taken out
debt okay so a variety of things and in
fact in the end of our call we were
really getting to a really good place
she had to leave early because I think
the babysitter had to go so even in that
moment I thought to myself gosh this is
everything is just working against them
just a little bit I wish it was just a
little easier for them and I felt that
way before when you know my wife and I
spent a lot of time learning about
Fitness and there's so much
counter-intuitive stuff and fitness like
so many fads and all this stuff and and
when we travel we try to eat right but
it's hard you know there's like a lot of
times just junk food and we go wow I
wish it were just a little easier to be
healthy in this country just a little
we're willing to do the work but I wish
it were just a little easier the
packaging being clearer not deceptive
the portion sizes and on and on and on
in their case we're able to reach like
an amazing
result which was they if they worked in
their certain jobs for something like 10
or 15 years they get some bunch of loan
forgiven
so they were like yeah we get the loan
forgiven but we're still going to have
to pay something like 200 000 in taxes
and I said well guys show me your
numbers we always look at their numbers
on the podcast
and they had actually been to their
credit investing a little bit every
single month since they were in their
20s
I said guys yes you have this huge debt
but by the time you become 50
you'll have hundreds of thousands of
dollars hundreds so when you get that
200 000 tax bill you can pay it off and
you'll still have money left over and
this blew their mind because they had
been playing defense for so long that
they forgot what it was like to go on
offense but they have to pay that down
and stay in that job
and this all doesn't come to fruition
until they're 50. ouch yeah if you could
give because that is not the advice that
I would give them I would be like well
all right listen right now tell me you
are going to need to make more money yes
you need to cut your cost down but you
need to make more money so let's talk
about how you make more money whether
that is getting a better job whether
that's a side hustle like I'd be asking
what are you doing every day to get a
skill that you can monetize yeah
well I I agree with you
when I'm having these conversations
there's I have to decide really
carefully how far to push it yeah you're
so much Kinder than I am man I would
just wait let me just let me just soak
this in I've never been told I'm kind
before in my life this is a moment for
me wow great job ramit you're so kind
thank you I mean I have to I I these
podcasts have made me more patient
because if I were to come out guns
blazing like boom I looked at your
numbers let's do this look at the ratio
and then let's earn you an extra ten
thousand dollars a month like
technically I can see the full picture
for them
but what I realized is if I come in guns
blazing and drop the bomb on them and
then I say well goodbye nothing changes
it has to be from them and I have to
slow it down like really slow it down so
we take hours we talk about their
childhood sometimes they'll make this
they'll make decisions that I don't
agree with but I have to know when to
let it go and when to be like guys this
we need to decide this right now are you
a money therapist
I'm not a therapist but I do love the
psychology of it the more I hear you do
it and the more I hear you talk about it
the more it really does feel like you're
a money therapist this is interesting it
may be that my Approach is just
fundamentally flawed but I can't bear
the thought of these guys like dragging
ass until they're 50 like and look I get
it that most people are not going to
respond to what I'm saying yeah and so
you were a better man than I no no
that's not true your your audience when
they come to you
if they come to you and they go just
tell it to me straight
you're going to tell to them straight
that's what they want and they come to
me and say soft shoe it I'm still going
to tell it to them I know why I know
that you're a much nicer human no I'm
not nicer please but I mean I although I
do love to hear it and I'm gonna make
sure my wife watches this repeatedly I
am nice see uh it's that you know what I
think for whatever reason I take a lot
of joy in watching people put the pieces
together for themselves I think I've
done for I've been doing my business for
20 years
I've done a lot of this stuff where I'm
like here's the answer like here's how
you do it here's how you set up a Roth
IRA and these are the accounts to use
and it all works together I like that
stuff too but to me this is the new
challenge of how do I help
other people come to the conclusion
themselves
and it it pushes me in a lot of ways
like I am not naturally patient
I want sometimes to just tell them the
answer because the math or the the thing
is just like jumping out to me
but I'm finding a lot of Joy maybe just
this season of life and just like
slowing it down and trying to help them
come to the answer themselves
okay so here is how I think you get them
there
you first are trying to get them to
unpack their money propaganda the things
that they have come to believe that they
don't realize so talking about their
childhood figuring all that out
you try to help them understand that
they need that people have talked to
them about money but never how to spend
money and so getting them to realize oh
my god I've never even thought about my
rich life I don't know how to spend
money well
there is a lot of tactics so helping
them understand what tools are available
to them I'm thinking about our friends
that are way in debt like I had no idea
that there was a loan forgiveness
program or anything like that I would
not have been able to offer any
assistance there
um and you
what else what those feel like the big
things you give people to do but what am
I there's there's always an inciting
incident so from their childhood no no
no like why are they here what happened
like he went and got the car repaired
and he just like spent 300 bucks without
asking me and that's or the target thing
or whatever
I want to get into the Contours of that
example so I make them walk it's right
at the beginning of the episode what
happened who called whom what'd you say
where were you eating I want to know the
rich tapestry of their life because
most people start getting really
abstract when they talk about money and
they just say things that they think
people want to hear they go well you
know I'm I'm like pretty Frugal or like
My Philosophy with money is
I I kind of set it up and I don't really
want to micromanage it I go what the f
what are we talking about here tell me
where you ate last Thursday and why you
guys fought at that Mexican restaurant I
want to get micro and then we go super
macro to talk about you know how they
grew up what are you teasing out with
the micro why make them go so specific
because uh when somebody tells me
um we were sitting at the
restaurant we go on a date night once a
month and the check came and he didn't
offer to pick it up or she didn't offer
to pick it up I go oh okay so what does
that mean to you who normally picks up
the check what kind of restaurant were
you at and when they tell me oh you like
sushi go you like Omakase what were you
guys eating Sashimi oh that's fancy what
are you guys a coastal Elite I'm joking
I'm building Rapport I'm showing them
that I'm not Mr Money guy with a suit
and tie like I can speak their language
but I'm also trying to unders I'm trying
to meet them where they are and to meet
them where they are I need to go into
their target conversation or their Sushi
dinner that's where people live people
do not normally live in a spreadsheet
they certainly don't live talking about
money every day money is like the
tiniest part of their life they don't
think about it unless they're fine
trying to get people to understand why
they do what they do with the micro
example I'm trying to meet them where
they are so that we all have a shared
Bond oh okay you guys went out to Sushi
and you fought over the bill cool then
that's just sort of like chapter one
then I want to zoom back I want to ask
him each about
how do you think about money I asked
somebody recently do you like money you
know what he said not really
I said really tell me why and we talk
about that I would sometimes sometimes I
have a couple of wild cards I pull out
if I'm just stumped so you're still you
can't figure out why they're derailed
yeah no sometimes they just
um every Avenue I go up is a dead end so
I think of myself like a detective
and I'm trying to find out what's going
on by the time they get to me I have
some basic information about them I have
their finances but do you have go-to
wild cards
um one yeah I do have one one is uh if
I'm really stumped and they will not
acknowledge the stakes of what they are
doing like they keep playing small they
keep fighting about little five dollar
expenses and they're like you know they
just don't seem to want to get out of
the weeds I go
what
what messages do you think your kids are
picking up from you
[Music]
instantly for parents of young children
in particular
it cuts very deep because we can excuse
a lot about ourselves well you know it's
not that bad we can even excuse it about
our partner that's fine you know
whatever
but when it comes to our kids every
parent wants to do the right thing
and so
in order to teach your children about
money properly you have to understand
money yourself
and that that really reaches people if
I'm stumped
interesting so
you're trying to find the point of
friction I'm assuming so my wife and I
talk a lot about this idea that we call
getting beneath the T so the biggest
argument we've ever had was over a cup
of tea okay of course it wasn't actually
a cup of tea that we were arguing about
but it took us hours to figure that out
we were yelling and screaming and almost
ruined the one vacation that we had
taken in like six years
so
I have a feeling that's what you're
trying to suss out okay where are you
guys colliding and then why are you
colliding is it a story that you're
telling yourself is there a discrepancy
in value system yeah okay so we start
getting under there the thing about the
kids is interesting because it's like
showing somebody a mirror it's hard to
act like an [__] in front of a mirror
because all of a sudden you see the way
that you hold your face the way you look
and you're just like oh God and they
know it too they know and they'll even
tell me the ages they're like well you
know our youngest is a little too young
to understand but like our
seven-year-old like you know he knows I
think he's starting to know I go really
what does he do when the two of you
fight about money and they look and I
can see them they look at each other and
they look down they go he goes into his
room and he plays on his iPad and he
puts his headphones on
I mean every parent is feeling that and
when you understand that the couple that
I was talking to in that scenario
the guy had done exactly the same thing
when his parents fought you start to see
how money messages are passed down from
generation to generation they really are
it's unbelievable and this is something
that's just not talked about that often
that many of us believe we wake up in
the morning I'm rational and logical I'm
going to make decisions because of my
financial ability and what I like and
often the decisions we're making today
what we wear what we eat is because of
something our parents said around the
dinner table 40 years ago and repeatedly
we see this on the podcast which is the
decisions we make the way we think about
money the way we talk about it with our
partner our expectations about who picks
up the bill
are often totally misaligned with how
much money we have in the bank and to me
that's the beautiful part of it it's
incoherent it's illogical but that's
exactly how we are as human beings
speaking of illogical and incoherent do
you ever ask them about sex
um it comes up but I don't really ask
sometimes they'll tell me our sex life
has suffered yeah yeah so it's usually
when
um it's exactly what you would think
it's when uh in a heterosexual
relationship
she feels that she's taking care of him
it's that yeah and so it's come up a
couple times I rarely ask about it
proactively but
it's clear from tones of voice with
certain couples
you have been thinking about this a lot
lately so I was doing a q a and talking
about basically how you live a good life
yeah and one of the answers was you need
to be having sex and I was filming in
front of several people and they were
all like are you sure man I don't know
because I will map out here the seven
things I'm going to cover whatever okay
they were like oh you sure about that
one and I was like yes I am very sure
about that one because part of it is
becoming the kind of person worthy of a
sexual relationship and when I think
about money I dude you know way more
about this than I do but if I had to
guess what I would find under the hood
is a lot of self-worth is a lot of
feeling uh certainly for the guy and
let's just see how many people I can
unintentionally piss off because I
actually don't mean this to be
controversial but I know it will be
so there's the famous quote everything
is about sex except for sex that's about
power
and when I think about four guys feeling
powerful
you you want to make a guy lose an
erection make him feel not powerful like
instantly
and if there's money woes and you feel
like you're not able to take care of the
situation or your wife is making more
than you I can see how that becomes very
difficult is that largely culturally
defined yes but I think that that's an
echo of something that's innate so it
doesn't have to be money but that's a
proxy for hunting being good at fighting
like dude I've been on a history kick
I'm really going to derail us here I've
been on a history kick history is a long
sequence of humans just absolutely
murdering each other that's crazy and
it's when when you're in a situation
where people can just roll up on your
house and Slaughter you and your whole
family it's just do you have enough
upper body strength to fight them off it
just is what it is and so you've got
millions of years of evolution informing
that guys need a way to express no I'm
I'm powerful I can do this this is why I
said my one fear around money is not
being studly in front of my wife that
[__] I lost this all
now my wife has been there for all of
the building and so when I say that
she's earned her half but at the same
time I feel really powerful for having
contributed as much as I have and you
know having helped build everything and
feeling and I think she would agree
being in a leadership position and all
that and so there is so much complexity
and if there is Bed Death in a
relationship that is going to increase
the amount of friction in everything
else because you don't have the bonding
mechanisms do you think do you think
that that comes at the front end or the
back end meaning do you think that
having a healthy sexual relationship
drives that feeling of power and
connection or do you think that having
connection drives a healthy sexual
relationship they are so intertwined
it's a little bit chicken in the egg you
probably need the sense of power first
to be in that arouse State like
I find this funny now that I'm quoting
uh Will Smith though there was a time
where I would have jumped right to it
where he said that I work this hard for
the way that my wife looks at me and I
instantly understood that wow and when
you first get into a sexual relationship
that look of like I really desire you is
intoxicating on both sides of the fence
now it comes from very different things
so
I would want the person that I'm about
to be intimate with to have that kind of
reaction to me now what does that
reaction come from a myriad of things
but in a long-term committed
relationship
one of them is going to be just do I see
you as a high functioning person in this
relationship money is certainly going to
be a part of that high functioning I I
like what you're saying because what it
really reveals is that
relationships particularly marriage is
not just about
love it's not it's it's a business
Arrangement it's a practical Arrangement
it may be an economic Arrangement and
for most of History it was and you know
I think about seeing parents with their
kids at a restaurant somewhere and one
of them's got to take the crying kid
outside and and they're they just they
intuitively know who's going to do it
this time
that is more than just romantic love
like that is a partnership and money is
a part of that so that's why I like
talking about money because it's one of
those core tenants in a relationship
that drives things and is driven by
those things you have money and you're
on the same page you're connected when
you're connected you can also talk about
money earn money together
Etc you said a word that I love it's a
huge word in my world it's the c word
contribute
who contributes I find that couples
where one person
earns way more than the other
the lower earner is obsessed
with the word contribute interesting
they're obsessed because in America we
value that which we can quantify if I
can put on a spreadsheet it must be
valuable
how many hours did I work how much money
did I make that's valuable but did I
take the kids out for a walk today
not quantifiable
therefore for whatever reason in our
culture less valuable so imagine you're
in a relationship and you are not
earning as much or even anything your
partner is
where do you find your value
that's question number one now question
number two what if you are a man
in a heterosexual relationship and your
partner earns more than you
this is becoming more and more common
you know in urban cities in their 20s
young women earn more than young men so
what does it mean for a man who they
almost always use the same word too when
I say what does a man mean to you what
do you think their answer is
providing Bingo he's a provider always
every guy is just like boom I get it and
so I say okay well let's just look at
the numbers right now your partner's
making two times what you're making
three times four times
in one case 100 times what he was making
yeah I said so what does that make you
he was at a loss
this is a big challenge that is going to
grow and grow because incomes will
change
who earns it is going to change and
we're not having those conversations yet
they're showing up on the podcast
they're showing up in private
conversations but
we're gonna have to really rethink what
contribute means what provider means
even what being a man or a woman means
and I'm I welcome those conversations I
think that the beautiful part is in a
relationship you get to choose
what your relationship is and the only
person
who it really matters is your partner if
the two of you have a relationship
that's working for you fantastic
that's good on paper
but we are both the shout and the echo
and it matters most what our partner
thinks I think that is for sure but it
is going to be the rare person not that
it won't happen and everyone's going to
point to the exceptions but it'll be the
rare person that can be mocked and
derided by their friends family and if
you have a social media account social
media and they do exist and I know some
of them and they're just you know they
they certainly let it roll off their
back now does it get to them even though
they say no I'm gonna say that you're
talking about for example a guy who's
the lower state stays at home stay at
home yeah they have terms right oh what
are you just a house husband things like
that okay so it's like what do we do
about that I don't even know that it's
what we do it's it's an acknowledgment
yeah people need to understand that you
you are going to be influenced by what
other people say and so you're going to
have to have a strategy for coping with
that okay so this couple where
um she wanted him to pick up the check
for dinner
and he was like yeah okay
but when he tried to pick up the check
she goes no I want you to save that
money and put it in your Roth oh God so
then wait then it gets even better yeah
we find out the incomes
they they don't live together they're
dating
he has a business he's starting to pay
himself a modest amount he pays himself
two thousand dollars a month okay great
his expenses are low he lives with his
parents
guess how much she makes per month
I know the punchline because I've
listened you listen too much of your
comments okay she makes 200
000 per month okay she's an entrepreneur
as well
so just think about the Dynamics that
are wrapped or something he was a welder
he is a welder and um the Dynamics here
of gender expectation income expectation
uh relational expectation you know we've
been together a year but we're not
married so we actually came up with a
strategy just like you said you have to
come up with a strategy that works for
the two of you and you have to plan for
what's going to happen because we don't
live on an island we live in the world
so in their case
they agreed on how much they want to
spend each month going out to dinner
they agreed on how it's going to be
distributed she agreed that some of the
dinners would be paid with her money but
she still wanted him to pick up the
check when they were at a restaurant
interesting that is so fascinating and
guess what guess what happened when she
was a kid guess who picked up the check
when her parents went out to dinner dad
and interestingly in that case
her mom made more than her dad
very interesting I mean this is this is
crazy right these are real people so I
orchestrated I helped them practice I
said how you guys going to get this
credit card handed over because he's
going to have to pay with your credit
card you don't want to have to do it the
restaurant it might be awkward they
planned it ahead of time yeah when when
you know they go to pick each other up
so interesting map it out so some of
these rituals seem like crazy but at
least they're being honest exactly like
I love that she's like I know this is
dumb but like I want you to pick up the
check that is so fascinating isn't that
half of life we're doing some dumb [__]
but we're not even honest about it if if
we're gonna do dumb stuff let's at least
be honest about it hey I probably don't
need to buy this sweater for this price
it it does it really cost is it five
times better than the sweater I can get
five times cheaper no but you know what
I just want to okay fine I'm being
honest about it it's valuable to me so
fascinating so my wife went through
something interesting with that where
when we first got together
and I was the only one working but she
loved it that I was paying for dinner or
I would buy something then it got to the
point where she was making her own money
and she was like I still want you to pay
for it and so I was like oh that's
fascinating I'm like but you've earned
half the money she's like yeah I know
but it's still I just really like it and
then she got to the point where she'd
been an entrepreneur for long enough and
leading teams and all that where she was
like actually I want to pay for it
myself and I'm like that's so
interesting so watching as her internal
identity changes the things that she
wants changes and but you have to
communicate that stuff because
it was really I loved that I was the
only one working and making money and
that I could take care of her and it was
you know friction filled and we talked
about this last time it was friction
filled when she then stepped into an
entrepreneurial role and I had to
reorient that I didn't have somebody at
home taking care of anything anymore I
had a business partner and it was like
okay that was an interesting transition
it never really meant a lot to me to be
like Oh I'm the one paying for it so
that wasn't uh it would there was no
friction when she said it but I was like
it's so interesting did you like when
steps two and step three happened when
she said I'm making money but I still
want you to pay and then the next step
where she said I actually want to pay
if I it really wasn't big in either
direction but if I had the 5149 it I was
51 more into and she was like would you
pay for me oh you like that yeah because
what uh being a provider and I can
actually boil this down and I feel
really bad for guys that don't have any
physical prowess because
my wife is far more petite than I am
and that makes me feel some kind of way
like I like that and so even though
we're now completely equal in our
earning potential and our contributions
to the business and all of that
I still do like have that while I'm
bigger and stronger and that makes me
feel some kind of way and I dude I get
it people are going to be freaking out
but I'm my whole thing the Epitaph on my
Tombstone ought to read you're having a
biological experience
and they're just realities to be faced
about where we start doesn't mean that's
where we end up I'm actually I have an
effeminate personality and so I'm way
more on the female Spectrum in terms of
traditional temperament my wife is more
on the mask and so it's utterly
fascinating to see even in that we break
in Fairly traditional ways
that's interesting stuff is fascinating
I just like hearing the progression or
the change that you and your wife had in
terms of something as specific as who
picks up the check I think that's to me
the magic is in the details that's
always why I always start with a
specific example where were you eating
what happened what happened with the car
because to me that's where the truth is
revealed when the check comes and the
Bill gets slid what happens
and you know for me I will say that um
you know your values really come into
play like I I really appreciate
Financial generosity in my relationship
I'm generous I like to be generous I
like to pay for my loved ones and all
that but I also like my partner to be
generous and that's a conversation we
had
um so I I guess I just love hearing
couples in the way that they navigate
money and their values together it is so
specific it's always different but the
general ideas are very similar it just
makes you feel connected to other people
when you can hear that you know I'm not
the only person who's had this
conversation with my partner you've had
it and other people have had it it makes
you realize we're all human and we're
all dealing with money in our own ways
yeah and it's so important to pull this
stuff into the light to talk about it to
acknowledge whatever weirdness that you
have for whatever reason you like this
thing be honest about it don't you know
judge yourself or worry about it because
that's going to create a problem
all right man I think that you're one of
the most practical people out there I
love that you are out there putting out
content where can people engage with you
the podcast the podcast it's called I
will teach you to be rich you can find
it anywhere and pick the episode that
looks the juiciest to you you don't have
to start in any particular one and I
think within 10 minutes
you will be hooked I like it I agree
boys and girls speaking of being hooked
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care peace
for more money myths you must avoid be
sure to check out this episode with
jaspreet Singh now really fast before we
move on so this is the part that people
need to understand about why the rich
get richer because I'm super as a rich
guy I'm like oh I'm gonna get richer
like what great so what have I never
understood how